Freedom Fone 2.0 - Lycaon Sekowei

Alberto Escudero-Pascual

<aep@it46.se>

$2.0.1$

Copyright © 2009-2011 Alberto Escudero-Pascual

$Date: 2011/02/08 10:17:29$

Sekowei has arrived! The fifth release of Freedom Fone.

Freedom Fone is an open source vCMS. A vCMS is a Voice Content Management that
allows you to deliver and receive audio content via the GSM network or a SIP
voice over IP gateway. The software connects phone networks to our platform,
two flexible voice applications allow the retrieval of audience feedback (Leave
a Message) and to deliver customized audio content (IVRs).

Freedom Fone is the result of three years of field experience with telephony
information services for civil society. During this last three years we have
learned that there is enough technology to build almost anything but not for
everyone to use. With Freedom Fone we have taken a U-U approach to telephony
technology and designed a system that wants to be "user and usability-centric".

Rather than presenting users with a million options to set up a telephony
system, we have opted to design basic but powerful telephony applications that
can be used with a great degree of flexibility. We have put special emphasis in
the user interface and lowering the cost of interfacing with the GSM network.

Freedom Fone is built combining the power of several open source projects that
include: FreeSWITCH, Spidermonkey, PHP5, Cake PHP and JQuery. Freedom Fone uses
Cepstral, a text-to-speech voice engine to synthesize voice messages.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

What is new in 2.0?

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Nested IVRs

This new feature of Freedom Fone includes major changes in the way that Voice
Menus are built. In constrast with previous versions, users can now create
several IVRs and nested them together to build any voice scenario.

Callers can reach individual IVRs or being offered the possibility to navigate
audio content interactively.

To facilitate the creation of voice menus in different languages we have
included a specific template to enable Language Selection. This simple IVR/
Voice Menu is known as Language Switcher and gives the possibity to select the
language as the first option when the call arrives to the system.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Graphical Interface

The Graphical User Interface has been completely redisigned and lots of work
have been put into new AJAX features, Breadcrub trail and terminology
consolidation.

With version 2.0 of Freedom Fone, our graphical interfaces also goes 2.0,
making navigation much more intuitive and interactive.

The new interface includes a Dashboard that gives the user an overall view of
the status of the system.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Multiple Leave-a-Message

As an improvement to previous versions, this new version supports multiple
Leave-a-Message (LAM). Now, it is possible to have several LAMs active in the
system as part of different IVRs or as independent services.

In combination with the Language Switcher, you can build personalized
Leave-a-Message services in multiple local languages. This feature is key to
reach audiences in local languages.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Audience management and phonebooks

Users that calls into the system can be automatically added to a phonebook.
Phonebooks can be exported to any other information system.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Enhanced hardware support

We have addressed the scalability issues of Freedom Fone by supporting
OfficeRoute, a low cost GSM-SIP gateway and opening the possibility to
interface any other SIP gateway.

To improve troubleshooting of poor GSM networks, Freedom Fone is able to talk
directly to our GSM gateway and retrieve status information of the GSM network.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

On the Cloud

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Virtualization and remote hosting

We are working hard to make sure that Freedom Fone can be installed on the
Cloud and provide secure hosting for installations. Freedom Fone architecture
supports the possibility of having the backend virtualized on a Cloud solution
and still be present with local GSM numbers.

Interested? Get in touch.

